SPEAKER 1: Well,
this is awkward.
So far DevDiary has
been exclusively Paul,
and now I'm here.
I snuck into the series
because I actually
built something on the
Chrome Dev Summit website.
And I want to show you
what I did, because I
think it's really exciting.
So the last few weeks,
I've been playing around
with VR and Web VR a little bit.
I'm just dabbling.
I'm just trying things out.
And Paul and I thought it would
be really cool opportunity
to build a 360 image
of the SFJAZZ Center
into the Chrome Dev
Summit website for people
if they were not able to
join us live tomorrow.
They could actually at least
see what the venue looks like
and how you get more of a
feel of the space that's
available to us.
And that's exactly what I did.
So if you go to the Chrome
Dev Summit website--
developer.chrome.com/devsummit--
and go to the Location
sub-page, it's all as before.
Same website that Paul
built, but you have
this tiny cardboard button.
And if you click it, we load the
360 view of the SFJAZZ Center.
On a desktop with
just normal desktop,
you can just use your
mouse to pan around and get
a feel for what the
surroundings look like.
If you're on your
phone, you can actually
just hold the phone in
your hand and move around
and have this as a magic window
into a different location.
You'll also have
a Cardboard button
that if you have
a Cardboard, you
can put your phone inside it and
actually move your head around
to actually feel even
more like you are there.
And if you have a
proper VR device,
you can actually use that
to get into the location--
use of proper Oculus Rift or the
HGC Vive or whatever you have.
And use that to actually
take a look inside.
So as I said, this is
sadly just a 360 image.
So many acronyms.
360 image, it is not
a stereoscopic image.
So the perception of depth
won't actually be real,
but you will have
this is basically
a big 3D sphere with a
texture on the inside
that you can look
around to give you
at least the feel of
you looking around,
but not actually
a feel of depth.
So how do you do this?
This is actually a
good example of how
to do progressive
enhancement with Web VR,
because if you
don't have anything,
it still works with
mouse and panning
and you can just use
your mouse to look on it.
It's already a pretty
good experience.
So let's dive into
the code a little bit.
Mostly, I'm working
with the VR View, which
is a great library that a
colleague of mine wrote,
which uses the VR polyfill
and the VR boilerplate.
So VR polyfill basically
poly-fills the Web VR API
for a browser, while
the VR boilerplate
does the progressive
enhancement story
to go from just a canvas where
you can pan around to cardboard
to actual VR devices.
So if you go into the
component sections
where Paul has written different
things like the video hand
of the fading, moving in
and out of big picture mode
to small picture
mode with the video,
I wrote a new VR component.
And it's actually mostly a
lot of animation and class
JavaScript.
But most of what it
does is it checks
if you are on the Dev
Summit location page,
and if so, it will
fade in the button.
Or rather, if you're not on the
Dev Summit location subpage,
it will just not do anything.
And then we hijacked
the masthead
to inject our little
button and do transitions
and all of these things.
It's not rocket science.
And the interesting thing
is basically the two lines
of the onClick Handler.
If you click on the button,
we will hide the button
because it needs to
go out of the way.
And also it will load a script.
So that means we will
load a script on click.
This is usually not
recommended because it
will mean that if you
click it, especially
if you've never
loaded the script,
it will take a lot of time
until action takes place.
However, I thought
that it's probably not
going to be every single
visitor on the website.
It's going to go into
the VR experience.
So both forcing the
data onto the user
and loading it ahead
of time just because
didn't seem like a good idea.
So I just wanted to
load it on demand.
And the Web VR script is,
again, mostly about hijacking.
So this is where I use
VR View-- the library.
And I hijacked the mast
head, injected a new I-frame,
where inside I'm going to
have a canvas with the 360
image and everything.
This is all the things
that Web VR does for me.
And it's basically one call.
So what I'm doing is I'm saying
create a new player for me,
Web VR, please.
Put it into the VR
VIew ID'd element,
and use this image that we have.
And that's basically
all I have to do.
And with this code,
it already worked.
And after that, I took a
little bit of a closer look
into Web VR because the amount
of data we're transporting
was quite big, and it turns
out that Web VR actually
bundles the Shaka Player, which
makes sense because it also
has a port for playing videos
in Web VR or in a VR space.
And Shaka Player is a
module that basically
does adaptive streaming.
It tunes down the quality
depending on how much bandwidth
you have at your disposal.
But we're never going
to play video here,
so delivering that code to the
user is just going to waste.
So I'm basically rendering the
entire VR view into third party
folder here, and I commented
out a lot of requires
that were in there and just
recompiled the entire thing
and shrunk the code down.
So I think at this
point, we're now
delivering 100 kilobytes of
code and 250 kilobytes of image
data, which I think it's
still a lot of data,
but it's acceptable most
of the time on mobile.
And it will load quick
enough most of the time.
Other than that,
it's very basic code.
I did find a nice pattern,
which is creating functions that
create promises for both
requestAnimationFrame
and transitionEnd.
So calling transitionEnd
promise on an element
will give you a promise that
resolves when transitionEnd
is fired on that element.
And it allows you to just do
these chains-- as in you chain
promises together.
So I called transitionEnd
promise on the mast head,
and when that is done,
I append a child.
I do a double raf, and then
I do again a class adaptation
and do transitionEnd
promise again.
So this is basically how I can
just more or less declaratively
do animation sequences
without using the actual web
animation API, which is
somewhat of a nice workaround.
It's not as powerful, but
it makes stuff a little more
readable than having multiple
levels and indentations
because you're using double raf
and all these kind of things.
If you like this, let me know.
If you have questions,
let me also know.
I am @dassurma on Twitter.
If you want to join us tomorrow
at the SFJAZZ Center in person,
come by.
It's going to be great.
If you can't, use the features
on the Chrome Summit website
to get notifications when
we're going to go live.
Everything is going
to be live streamed.
Subscribe also to
this YouTube channel
because we have more
great things here
that are going to
come out regularly.
So thank you for watching, and
hopefully, see you tomorrow.